# Replication package for "Extending the Range of Bugs That Automated Program Repair Can Handle"

This repository contains the replication package for the paper 
> _"Extending the Range of Bugs That Automated Program Repair Can Handle"_, 
> Omar I. Al-Bataineh, Leon Moonen and Linas Vidziunas. 
> Published in the Journal on System and Software (JSS). 2023.
> DOI: [10.1016/j.jss.2023.111918](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2023.111918)


## How to install

Pull the docker container from DockerHub or build it using the Dockerfile in the project root directory.

```shell
  docker pull linasvidz/extending-apr
```

## How to run

```shell
  docker run -it -w /opt/Bugs/ linasvidz/extending-apr /bin/bash
```

The docker container already contains the configured buggy projects. The configurations for the termination bugs have been generated by the ~Repair/generate_project.sh~ script.

To perform repair on a pre-configured bug, enter the bug's root directory and run the following command:

```shell
cd /opt/Bugs/termination/Adding_Subtracting_Zero_1_NT.c && genprog configuration
```

## Directory structure

```
.
├── Bugs                         Buggy source code and generated patches
│   ├── performance-elaborate    Elaborate performance bug
│   ├── performance-simple       Simple performance bug
│   └── termination              Termination bugs
├── Repair                       Source code
├── Dockerfile
├── LICENSE
├── Makefile
├── README.md
└── termination.prp              Termination property for UAutomizer

```

## License

All files in this repository are distributed under the MIT license, 
except for the termination bugs in the folder `Bugs/termination`. 
These originate from https://github.com/FSE2022benchmarks/termination, 
which is distributed under the GPL3 license. 

## Citation and Zenodo links

Please site this work by referring to the paper: 
> _"Extending the Range of Bugs That Automated Program Repair Can Handle"_, 
> Omar I. Al-Bataineh, Leon Moonen and Linas Vidziunas. 
> Journal on System and Software (JSS). 2023. DOI: [10.1016/j.jss.2023.111918](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2023.111918)

    @article{bataineh2023:extending,
        title = {Extending the Range of Bugs That Automated Program Repair Can Handle},
        author = {Omar I. {Al-Bataineh} and Moonen, Leon and Vidziunas, Linas}
        journal = {Journal of Systems and Software (JSS)},
        year = {2023},
        pages = {111918},
        publisher = {Elsevier},
        keywords = {automated program repair, bug classification, hybrid techniques, non-observable and liveness bugs},
        doi = {10.1016/j.jss.2023.111918},
    }

The GitHub repository containing the code to automatically collect the
dataset can be found at <https://github.com/secureIT-project/extendingAPR>,
released with DOI:
[10.5281/zenodo.10397656](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.10397656).


## Acknowledgement

This work has been financially supported by the Research Council of
Norway through the secureIT project (RCN contract \#288787).
